will there have been emotional reunions
in Israel as well as captives held by
Hamas since October 7th have returned
[Music]
home that's 9-year-old Irish Israeli
Emily hand running to hug her father the
Israeli military incorrectly told
Emily's father her body had been found
weeks ago the second girl is 13-year-old
Hiller rotm shashani who was also
released but her mother remains in in
captivity well thousands also gathered
in Tel Aviv to wel welome home those
released by Hamas Al jazer Sarah hak
reports they came full of Hope but that
soon disappeared when several hours
passed with no sign of Hamas handing
over 13 captives to the Red Cross to
then be brought back to Israel only in
its second day a ceasefire agreement all
of a sudden seemed to hang in the
balance as an estimated 100,000 people
rallied in Tel Aviv calling for the
release of all captives held in
Gaza the road is still long and the
strength of our family is in its unity
and mutual responsibility for the
release of all the hostages young old
Israeli and foreign soldiers civilians
women and children all of them all of
them
[Music]
now but words spread fast of Hamas
delaying the release of the second group
of captives until its conditions have
owing Aid trucks to reach people
desperately in need in Northern Gaza
were
met out of 200 trucks we did not reach
till
now 70
trucks also according to the release of
the prisoners we believe that the
Israelis are manipulating the issue we
will stand against that and we are still
waiting the response of the mediators
with with Qatar and Egypt quick to
resolve the differences Israel's Army
spokesman called them loopholes and had
this to
add we are screening all the trucks that
contain aid from the US Egypt and un
according to the Clause this is done
with the constitution of the UN the
arrival of those trucks for both the
North and the South is done through
humanitarian organizations for the
families of those being released the
wait was soon over when video was shown
live on TV showing 13 Israelis and four
Tha Nationals cross into Egypt from Gaza
through the Rafa border crossing the
release captives mostly from the
southern town of bayeri which bore the
brunt of the October 7 Hamas attack are
now in Israel and their communities say
that some of the children have been spit
up from family members still stuck in
Gaza as relatives of the cap Ives
thanked the crowds for their support
they said they'll remain cautiously
optimistic until all of their loved ones
are brought back home Sarat Al jazer Tel
Aviv well hamda salute joins us live now
from occupied East Jerusalem ham so what
more can you tell us then about these
released Israeli captives and where they
are
now well as the second day of the
ceasefire and captives prisoner exchange
comes to a close there were several
issues and delays with the release of
the captives nearly 7 hours after they
were expected to be released at 400 p.m.
local time the captives were taken by
the Red Cross to the rafah crossing
where they were then taken into the
hands of the Israeli military for
identification processes they then
boarded buses to cross into Israeli
territory went to a base in southern
Israel where they were then airlifted
and took other vehicles to Hospitals now
the Israeli Health Ministry says that
one of the captives who was released a
21-year-old woman went straight from the
border to the hospital because she was
in Urgent uh she needed urgent medical
care they have since said that her
condition is stable additionally what we
know about the third day of the expected
ceasefire the Israeli government has
received a list of names for those
expected to be released tomorrow at the
same expected time around 4 p.m. local
now for the captives that were released
this evening they all went to the
hospitals and have since been reunited
with their families they will then stay
in the hospitals for one or two days as
they are going uh under medical and
psychological checks and at the moment
the Israelis welcomed the captives back
but are saying there is still cautious
optimism in the air Darren yeah Hamad as
we saw there thousands of people had
rallied in Tel Aviv ahead of that
release what's been the reaction both in
Israel and around the
world well the Israeli Prime Minister
releasing a statement saying that he
welcomed the captives back into Israel
but that he was still working toward
getting back all of the captives who are
currently being held inside of the Gaza
Strip now internationally there was a
lot of reaction the first is from the
prime minister of Thailand who welcomed
the release of the four foreign
Nationals today who are all Thai
citizens she said they were all in good
health posting on X formerly known as
Twitter saying that there are 16 TI
Nationals still left in the Gaza Strip
that are currently being held by Hamas
now Germany has also spoken out saying
that they are extremely grateful and
leaved for the return of four of their
citizens who were also returned on
Saturday additionally Ireland's prime
minister said that it is a day of quote
enormous joy and relief as a 9-year-old
Irish Israeli girl was brought back into
Israeli territory and reunited with her
father now remember this is the same
girl whose father was notified that she
was dead as of October 7th and then
Weeks Later Israel authorities contacted
him again and said that there was a
mistake in the identification process at
one of the morgs and that she was
actually being held captive inside of
Gaza all right now as for the Israelis
Israeli Society is welcoming this they
are encouraging the release of more
captives however the Israeli Army is
saying that they're going to continue
this war after the 4day ceasefire comes
to a close Darren all right hamda salute
live for us there in occupied East
Jerusalem hamda thank you